---
title: Diamonds Wait For No Man
---

I know people. Some of them are even reading this. You know who you are.
The ones who sighed in relief when it became cool to be a geek, when the
International Baccalaureate became a source of pride and mutual
camaraderie. You're one of the new generation of movers, shakers and
future-makers; but what's this? You're hiding?

<!--more-->

Where is it that you really belong? You know you don't belong here, and
your worst fear is that everyone else knows this too. Everyone around
you is comfortable, confident and excited for the future, and you're
living a dream. Someone else's dream, one you can only watch others
fulfill. As the years go by, the expectations of a high-schooler are
proved to be justified, just not by you. By the people you used to hang
out with, row boats with, study with.

Where is he? He's moving and shaking simultaneously, so hard he can
barely hear you. Every once in a while, he passes through your life;
"You were going to be a scientist, right? That's so cool," he says. You
don't have the courage to tell him that you ended up becoming a
paralegal, or a nurse's assistant in Just Nine Months&#8482;, that your
grand dreams for the future had to be put aside for whatever reason: you
had a kid, you didn't think you were good enough, you couldn't afford
the future.

Then he rides off in his motorcycle that he bought "because he felt like
it". Part of you wants to shave his trendy stubble with a chain-saw, but
the other part wants to ask him how he got where he is, what you did
wrong fifteen years ago. But as always, you don't. You don't ask him
anything, you just say, "Man, it was so cool to see you again! We should
get the old gang back together some day, talk about old times..."

"Yeah, man, that would be really cool. Well, I've gotta run. **Diamonds
wait for no man.**" *There is opportunity for the taking in Africa; you
just have to see it!* And you know you won't see him again for another
few years (unless stalking him on the Internet counts).

---------

Like I said, you know who you are. Your problem is that you stole
another man's path, and were surprised when he took it back; I carved
out my own. You don't need to hide in a throng of geeks to be
well-liked.
